README.md, before:

# OHA GUI Tool

A cross-platform GUI application for HTTP load testing using the [oha](https://github.com/hatoo/oha) command-line tool. Built with PHP and the kingbes/libui library.

## Features

- **User-friendly GUI** for configuring HTTP load tests
- **Save and load** test configurations with persistent storage
- **Real-time test execution** and results display
- **Cross-platform support** (Windows, macOS, Linux)
- **Multiple HTTP methods** (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, PATCH)
- **Custom headers and request body** configuration
- **Advanced test result parsing** and formatted display
- **Comprehensive error handling** with user guidance
- **Resource cleanup** and proper application lifecycle management
- **Platform-specific installation** instructions and troubleshooting

## Prerequisites

### Required
- **PHP 8.0+** with the following extensions:
  - `json` extension (usually included)
  - `pcntl` extension (for signal handling on Unix-like systems, optional)
- **Composer** - PHP dependency manager
- **kingbes/libui** package (installed via Composer)

### Required for Testing Functionality
- **oha** binary - The HTTP load testing tool
  - Download from: https://github.com/hatoo/oha/releases
  - Must be placed in the `bin/` directory of this application
  - The application will detect the binary automatically

## Quick Start

### Option 1: Using Pre-built PHAR (Recommended)
Download the pre-built `oha-gui.phar` from the releases page and run:
```bash
# Download oha from https://github.com/hatoo/oha/releases
# Create `bin/` directory if it doesn't exist
# Place the binary in `bin/` directory:
#   - Windows: `bin/oha.exe`
#   - macOS/Linux: `bin/oha` (with execute permissions)

php oha-gui.phar
```

### Option 2: From Source Code
1. **Download and Setup**
   ```bash
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd oha-gui-tool
   composer install
   ```

2. **Install OHA Binary**
   - Download oha from https://github.com/hatoo/oha/releases
   - Create `bin/` directory if it doesn't exist
   - Place the binary in `bin/` directory:
     - Windows: `bin/oha.exe`
     - macOS/Linux: `bin/oha` (with execute permissions)

3. **Run the Application**
   ```bash
   # Windows
   run.bat
   
   # macOS/Linux
   ./run.sh
   
   # Or directly
   php main.php
   ```

## Installation

### Detailed Installation Steps

1. **Clone or download this repository**
   ```bash
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd oha-gui-tool
   ```

2. **Install PHP dependencies**
   ```bash
   composer install
   ```

3. **Download and install oha binary**
   - **Windows**: Download `oha.exe` from the releases page
   - **macOS**: Download the macOS binary or use `brew install oha`
   - **Linux**: Download the Linux binary for your architecture
   - **Place the binary in the `bin/` directory** of this application
   - **Ensure execute permissions** (Unix-like systems): `chmod +x bin/oha`

## Usage

### Running the Application

#### Windows
```cmd
run.bat
```
or
```cmd
php main.php
```

#### macOS/Linux
```bash
./run.sh
```
or
```bash
php main.php
```

### Using the GUI

1. **Configure Test Parameters**
   - Enter the target URL
   - Select HTTP method
   - Set concurrent connections, duration, and timeout
   - Add custom headers and request body if needed

2. **Save/Load Configurations**
   - Save frequently used configurations for reuse
   - Load previously saved configurations
   - Manage your configuration library

3. **Run Tests**
   - Click "Start Test" to begin load testing
   - Monitor real-time output
   - View formatted results when complete
   - Stop tests early if needed

## Configuration

The application stores configurations in platform-specific directories:
- **Windows**: `%APPDATA%\OhaGui\`
- **macOS**: `~/Library/Application Support/OhaGui/`
- **Linux**: `~/.config/ohagui/`

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **"kingbes/libui package is not available"**
   - Run `composer install` to install all dependencies
   - Ensure Composer is properly installed and accessible
   - Check that the vendor directory exists and contains the kingbes/libui package

2. **"oha binary not found in bin directory"**
   - Download oha from https://github.com/hatoo/oha/releases
   - Place the binary in the `bin/` directory (create if it doesn't exist)
   - On Windows: use `oha.exe`, on Unix-like systems: use `oha`
   - Ensure execute permissions: `chmod +x bin/oha` (Unix-like systems)

3. **"Composer autoloader not found"**
   - Run `composer install` in the project directory
   - Ensure Composer is installed and accessible

4. **Configuration save/load issues**
   - Check write permissions to the configuration directory
   - Ensure adequate disk space is available
   - Configuration directory locations:
     - Windows: `%APPDATA%\OhaGui\`
     - macOS: `~/Library/Application Support/OhaGui/`
     - Linux: `~/.config/ohagui/`

### Platform-Specific Notes

#### Windows
- Use `oha.exe` in the `bin/` directory
- Run using `run.bat` or `php main.php`
- Some antivirus software may flag the executable - add exceptions if needed
- Ensure PHP is installed and accessible from command line

#### macOS
- Use `oha` binary in the `bin/` directory
- Run using `./run.sh` or `php main.php`
- You may need to allow the application in System Preferences > Security & Privacy
- Make the binary executable: `chmod +x bin/oha`

#### Linux
- Use `oha` binary in the `bin/` directory
- Run using `./run.sh` or `php main.php`
- Make the binary executable: `chmod +x bin/oha`
- Ensure you have the necessary PHP packages installed

## Development

### Project Structure
```
src/
├── App/           # Main application class
├── Core/          # Business logic (command building, execution, parsing)
├── GUI/           # User interface components
├── Models/        # Data models
└── Utils/         # Utility classes

tests/             # Unit tests
vendor/            # Composer dependencies
main.php           # Application entry point
```

### Building PHAR Package

To build a standalone PHAR package for distribution:

1. **Install Box dependency** (if not already installed):
   ```bash
   composer require --dev humbug/box
   ```

2. **Build the PHAR package**:
   ```bash
   ./build.sh
   ```
   
   Or manually:
   ```bash
   php vendor/bin/box compile
   ```

3. **Run the generated PHAR**:
   ```bash
   php oha-gui.phar
   ```

The build process will create `oha-gui.phar` which contains all necessary files and dependencies for standalone execution.

### Running Tests

#### Unit Tests
```bash
php run_tests.php
```

#### Cross-Platform Testing
```bash
php test_platform.php
```

#### Final Integration Testing
```bash
php test_final_integration.php
```

#### Individual Component Tests
```bash
# Test specific components
php test_config_basic.php
php test_executor.php
php test_result_parser.php
php test_input_validation.php
php test_filesystem_error_handling.php
php test_process_error_handling.php
```

## Version Information

**Current Version**: 1.0.0  
**Release Date**: 2024  
**PHP Requirement**: 8.0+  
**Platform Support**: Windows, macOS, Linux  

## Recent Improvements

### Version 1.0.0 Features

- **Enhanced Cross-Platform Support**: Automatic platform detection and platform-specific configurations
- **Improved Error Handling**: Comprehensive error messages with actionable suggestions
- **Resource Management**: Proper cleanup and application lifecycle management
- **User Guidance System**: Built-in help, troubleshooting guides, and usage tips
- **Robust Testing Suite**: 100% test coverage with cross-platform validation
- **Simplified Binary Management**: OHA binary detection limited to project `bin/` directory
- **Enhanced Configuration Management**: Improved file operations with error recovery
- **Professional UI Polish**: Better window management and user experience
- **Fixed Configuration Save Bug**: Resolved "Call to a member function validateConfiguration() on null" error when saving new configurations

### Technical Improvements

- **Modular Architecture**: Clean separation of concerns with PSR-4 autoloading
- **Comprehensive Validation**: Input validation with detailed error reporting
- **Cross-Platform Path Handling**: Proper file system operations across platforms
- **Memory Management**: Efficient resource cleanup and garbage collection
- **Error Recovery**: Graceful handling of edge cases and system limitations

## Performance and Reliability

- **Tested on Multiple Platforms**: Windows, macOS, and Linux compatibility verified
- **Memory Efficient**: Proper resource cleanup prevents memory leaks
- **Error Resilient**: Comprehensive error handling with user guidance
- **Production Ready**: Full test suite with 100% success rate

## Changelog

### Version 1.0.0 (2024)
- **Initial Release**: Complete OHA GUI Tool implementation
- **Cross-Platform Support**: Windows, macOS, and Linux compatibility
- **GUI Interface**: Full-featured GUI using kingbes/libui
- **Configuration Management**: Save/load test configurations
- **Real-Time Testing**: Live output during test execution
- **Error Handling**: Comprehensive error messages and user guidance
- **Resource Management**: Proper cleanup and lifecycle management
- **Testing Suite**: Complete test coverage with validation
- **Documentation**: Comprehensive README and troubleshooting guides
- **Binary Management**: Simplified oha binary detection in bin/ directory
- **User Experience**: Professional UI with keyboard shortcuts and tooltips

### Development Milestones
- ✅ Core architecture and models
- ✅ GUI components and layout
- ✅ Test execution and result parsing
- ✅ Configuration management system
- ✅ Cross-platform compatibility
- ✅ Error handling and validation
- ✅ Resource cleanup and lifecycle
- ✅ User guidance and documentation
- ✅ Comprehensive testing suite
- ✅ Final integration and polish

## License

This project is open source. Please check the individual component licenses:
- oha: MIT License
- kingbes/libui: Check the repository for license information

## Architecture

The application follows a modular architecture with clear separation of concerns:

```
src/
├── App/           # Main application class and lifecycle management
├── Core/          # Business logic (command building, execution, parsing, validation)
├── GUI/           # User interface components (MainWindow, forms, displays)
├── Models/        # Data models (TestConfiguration, TestResult)
└── Utils/         # Utility classes (CrossPlatform, FileManager, UserGuidance)

tests/             # Unit tests for core components
bin/               # OHA binary location (user must provide)
assets/            # Application assets (icons, etc.)
```

### Key Components

- **OhaGuiApp**: Main application class handling initialization and lifecycle
- **MainWindow**: Primary GUI window with comprehensive error handling
- **TestExecutor**: Manages oha command execution with real-time output
- **ConfigurationManager**: Handles saving/loading test configurations
- **CrossPlatform**: Provides cross-platform compatibility utilities
- **UserGuidance**: Comprehensive error messages and troubleshooting help

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Add tests if applicable
5. Run the test suite: `php test_final_integration.php`
6. Submit a pull request

### Development Guidelines

- Follow PSR-4 autoloading standards
- Add comprehensive error handling with user guidance
- Ensure cross-platform compatibility
- Write unit tests for new functionality
- Update documentation as needed

## Error Handling and User Guidance

The application includes comprehensive error handling with user-friendly guidance:

- **Automatic error detection** for common issues
- **Platform-specific installation instructions**
- **Detailed troubleshooting guides**
- **Contextual help and suggestions**
- **Graceful degradation** when oha binary is not available

### Built-in Help Features

- Keyboard shortcuts guide (Ctrl+N, Ctrl+S, F5, etc.)
- Usage tips for effective load testing
- Comprehensive troubleshooting documentation
- Platform-specific setup instructions

## Testing and Quality Assurance

The application includes extensive testing:

- **Unit tests** for all core components
- **Integration tests** for component interaction
- **Cross-platform compatibility tests**
- **Error handling validation**
- **Resource cleanup verification**
- **User guidance system testing**

All tests achieve 100% success rate on supported platforms.

## Support

For issues and questions:
1. Check the built-in troubleshooting guide (run the app and check error messages)
2. Review the troubleshooting section above
3. Run the diagnostic tests: `php test_platform.php`
4. Check the oha documentation: https://github.com/hatoo/oha
5. Review the kingbes/libui documentation: https://github.com/kingbes/libui
6. Create an issue in this repository with diagnostic information

Commit message:

Add Windows build support and update documentation

README.md, after:

# OHA GUI Tool

A cross-platform GUI application for HTTP load testing using the [oha](https://github.com/hatoo/oha) command-line tool. Built with PHP and the kingbes/libui library.

## Features

- **User-friendly GUI** for configuring HTTP load tests
- **Save and load** test configurations with persistent storage
- **Real-time test execution** and results display
- **Cross-platform support** (Windows, macOS, Linux)
- **Multiple HTTP methods** (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, PATCH)
- **Custom headers and request body** configuration
- **Advanced test result parsing** and formatted display
- **Comprehensive error handling** with user guidance
- **Resource cleanup** and proper application lifecycle management
- **Platform-specific installation** instructions and troubleshooting

## Prerequisites

### Required
- **PHP 8.0+** with the following extensions:
  - `json` extension (usually included)
  - `pcntl` extension (for signal handling on Unix-like systems, optional)
- **Composer** - PHP dependency manager
- **kingbes/libui** package (installed via Composer)

### Required for Testing Functionality
- **oha** binary - The HTTP load testing tool
  - Download from: https://github.com/hatoo/oha/releases
  - Must be placed in the `bin/` directory of this application
  - The application will detect the binary automatically

## Quick Start

### Option 1: Using Pre-built PHAR (Recommended)
Download the pre-built `oha-gui.phar` from the releases page and run:
```bash
# Download oha from https://github.com/hatoo/oha/releases
# Create `bin/` directory if it doesn't exist
# Place the binary in `bin/` directory:
#   - Windows: `bin/oha.exe`
#   - macOS/Linux: `bin/oha` (with execute permissions)

php oha-gui.phar
```

### Option 2: From Source Code
1. **Download and Setup**
   ```bash
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd oha-gui-tool
   composer install
   ```

2. **Install OHA Binary**
   - Download oha from https://github.com/hatoo/oha/releases
   - Create `bin/` directory if it doesn't exist
   - Place the binary in `bin/` directory:
     - Windows: `bin/oha.exe`
     - macOS/Linux: `bin/oha` (with execute permissions)

3. **Run the Application**
   ```bash
   # Windows
   run.bat
   
   # macOS/Linux
   ./run.sh
   
   # Or directly
   php main.php
   ```

## Installation

### Detailed Installation Steps

1. **Clone or download this repository**
   ```bash
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd oha-gui-tool
   ```

2. **Install PHP dependencies**
   ```bash
   composer install
   ```

3. **Download and install oha binary**
   - **Windows**: Download `oha.exe` from the releases page
   - **macOS**: Download the macOS binary or use `brew install oha`
   - **Linux**: Download the Linux binary for your architecture
   - **Place the binary in the `bin/` directory** of this application
   - **Ensure execute permissions** (Unix-like systems): `chmod +x bin/oha`

## Usage

### Running the Application

#### Windows
```cmd
run.bat
```
or
```cmd
php main.php
```

#### macOS/Linux
```bash
./run.sh
```
or
```bash
php main.php
```

### Using the GUI

1. **Configure Test Parameters**
   - Enter the target URL
   - Select HTTP method
   - Set concurrent connections, duration, and timeout
   - Add custom headers and request body if needed

2. **Save/Load Configurations**
   - Save frequently used configurations for reuse
   - Load previously saved configurations
   - Manage your configuration library

3. **Run Tests**
   - Click "Start Test" to begin load testing
   - Monitor real-time output
   - View formatted results when complete
   - Stop tests early if needed

## Configuration

The application stores configurations in platform-specific directories:
- **Windows**: `%APPDATA%\OhaGui\`
- **macOS**: `~/Library/Application Support/OhaGui/`
- **Linux**: `~/.config/ohagui/`

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **"kingbes/libui package is not available"**
   - Run `composer install` to install all dependencies
   - Ensure Composer is properly installed and accessible
   - Check that the vendor directory exists and contains the kingbes/libui package

2. **"oha binary not found in bin directory"**
   - Download oha from https://github.com/hatoo/oha/releases
   - Place the binary in the `bin/` directory (create if it doesn't exist)
   - On Windows: use `oha.exe`, on Unix-like systems: use `oha`
   - Ensure execute permissions: `chmod +x bin/oha` (Unix-like systems)

3. **"Composer autoloader not found"**
   - Run `composer install` in the project directory
   - Ensure Composer is installed and accessible

4. **Configuration save/load issues**
   - Check write permissions to the configuration directory
   - Ensure adequate disk space is available
   - Configuration directory locations:
     - Windows: `%APPDATA%\OhaGui\`
     - macOS: `~/Library/Application Support/OhaGui/`
     - Linux: `~/.config/ohagui/`

### Platform-Specific Notes

#### Windows
- Use `oha.exe` in the `bin/` directory
- Run using `run.bat` or `php main.php`
- Some antivirus software may flag the executable - add exceptions if needed
- Ensure PHP is installed and accessible from command line

#### macOS
- Use `oha` binary in the `bin/` directory
- Run using `./run.sh` or `php main.php`
- You may need to allow the application in System Preferences > Security & Privacy
- Make the binary executable: `chmod +x bin/oha`

#### Linux
- Use `oha` binary in the `bin/` directory
- Run using `./run.sh` or `php main.php`
- Make the binary executable: `chmod +x bin/oha`
- Ensure you have the necessary PHP packages installed

## Development

### Project Structure
```
src/
├── App/           # Main application class
├── Core/          # Business logic (command building, execution, parsing)
├── GUI/           # User interface components
├── Models/        # Data models
└── Utils/         # Utility classes

tests/             # Unit tests
vendor/            # Composer dependencies
main.php           # Application entry point
```

### Building PHAR Package

To build a standalone PHAR package for distribution:

1. **Install Box dependency** (if not already installed):
   ```bash
   composer require --dev humbug/box
   ```

2. **Build the PHAR package**:
   ```bash
   # On Unix-like systems (macOS, Linux)
   ./build.sh
   
   # On Windows
   build.bat
   ```
   
   Or manually:
   ```bash
   php vendor/bin/box compile
   ```

3. **Run the generated PHAR**:
   ```bash
   php oha-gui.phar
   ```

The build process will create `oha-gui.phar` which contains all necessary files and dependencies for standalone execution.

### Running Tests

#### Unit Tests
```bash
php run_tests.php
```

#### Cross-Platform Testing
```bash
php test_platform.php
```

#### Final Integration Testing
```bash
php test_final_integration.php
```

#### Individual Component Tests
```bash
# Test specific components
php test_config_basic.php
php test_executor.php
php test_result_parser.php
php test_input_validation.php
php test_filesystem_error_handling.php
php test_process_error_handling.php
```

## Version Information

**Current Version**: 1.0.0  
**Release Date**: 2024  
**PHP Requirement**: 8.0+  
**Platform Support**: Windows, macOS, Linux  

## Recent Improvements

### Version 1.0.0 Features

- **Enhanced Cross-Platform Support**: Automatic platform detection and platform-specific configurations
- **Improved Error Handling**: Comprehensive error messages with actionable suggestions
- **Resource Management**: Proper cleanup and application lifecycle management
- **User Guidance System**: Built-in help, troubleshooting guides, and usage tips
- **Robust Testing Suite**: 100% test coverage with cross-platform validation
- **Simplified Binary Management**: OHA binary detection limited to project `bin/` directory
- **Enhanced Configuration Management**: Improved file operations with error recovery
- **Professional UI Polish**: Better window management and user experience
- **Fixed Configuration Save Bug**: Resolved "Call to a member function validateConfiguration() on null" error when saving new configurations

### Technical Improvements

- **Modular Architecture**: Clean separation of concerns with PSR-4 autoloading
- **Comprehensive Validation**: Input validation with detailed error reporting
- **Cross-Platform Path Handling**: Proper file system operations across platforms
- **Memory Management**: Efficient resource cleanup and garbage collection
- **Error Recovery**: Graceful handling of edge cases and system limitations

## Performance and Reliability

- **Tested on Multiple Platforms**: Windows, macOS, and Linux compatibility verified
- **Memory Efficient**: Proper resource cleanup prevents memory leaks
- **Error Resilient**: Comprehensive error handling with user guidance
- **Production Ready**: Full test suite with 100% success rate

## Changelog

### Version 1.0.0 (2024)
- **Initial Release**: Complete OHA GUI Tool implementation
- **Cross-Platform Support**: Windows, macOS, and Linux compatibility
- **GUI Interface**: Full-featured GUI using kingbes/libui
- **Configuration Management**: Save/load test configurations
- **Real-Time Testing**: Live output during test execution
- **Error Handling**: Comprehensive error messages and user guidance
- **Resource Management**: Proper cleanup and lifecycle management
- **Testing Suite**: Complete test coverage with validation
- **Documentation**: Comprehensive README and troubleshooting guides
- **Binary Management**: Simplified oha binary detection in bin/ directory
- **User Experience**: Professional UI with keyboard shortcuts and tooltips

### Development Milestones
- ✅ Core architecture and models
- ✅ GUI components and layout
- ✅ Test execution and result parsing
- ✅ Configuration management system
- ✅ Cross-platform compatibility
- ✅ Error handling and validation
- ✅ Resource cleanup and lifecycle
- ✅ User guidance and documentation
- ✅ Comprehensive testing suite
- ✅ Final integration and polish

## License

This project is open source. Please check the individual component licenses:
- oha: MIT License
- kingbes/libui: Check the repository for license information

## Architecture

The application follows a modular architecture with clear separation of concerns:

```
src/
├── App/           # Main application class and lifecycle management
├── Core/          # Business logic (command building, execution, parsing, validation)
├── GUI/           # User interface components (MainWindow, forms, displays)
├── Models/        # Data models (TestConfiguration, TestResult)
└── Utils/         # Utility classes (CrossPlatform, FileManager, UserGuidance)

tests/             # Unit tests for core components
bin/               # OHA binary location (user must provide)
assets/            # Application assets (icons, etc.)
```

### Key Components

- **OhaGuiApp**: Main application class handling initialization and lifecycle
- **MainWindow**: Primary GUI window with comprehensive error handling
- **TestExecutor**: Manages oha command execution with real-time output
- **ConfigurationManager**: Handles saving/loading test configurations
- **CrossPlatform**: Provides cross-platform compatibility utilities
- **UserGuidance**: Comprehensive error messages and troubleshooting help

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Add tests if applicable
5. Run the test suite: `php test_final_integration.php`
6. Submit a pull request

### Development Guidelines

- Follow PSR-4 autoloading standards
- Add comprehensive error handling with user guidance
- Ensure cross-platform compatibility
- Write unit tests for new functionality
- Update documentation as needed

## Error Handling and User Guidance

The application includes comprehensive error handling with user-friendly guidance:

- **Automatic error detection** for common issues
- **Platform-specific installation instructions**
- **Detailed troubleshooting guides**
- **Contextual help and suggestions**
- **Graceful degradation** when oha binary is not available

### Built-in Help Features

- Keyboard shortcuts guide (Ctrl+N, Ctrl+S, F5, etc.)
- Usage tips for effective load testing
- Comprehensive troubleshooting documentation
- Platform-specific setup instructions

## Testing and Quality Assurance

The application includes extensive testing:

- **Unit tests** for all core components
- **Integration tests** for component interaction
- **Cross-platform compatibility tests**
- **Error handling validation**
- **Resource cleanup verification**
- **User guidance system testing**

All tests achieve 100% success rate on supported platforms.

## Support

For issues and questions:
1. Check the built-in troubleshooting guide (run the app and check error messages)
2. Review the troubleshooting section above
3. Run the diagnostic tests: `php test_platform.php`
4. Check the oha documentation: https://github.com/hatoo/oha
5. Review the kingbes/libui documentation: https://github.com/kingbes/libui
6. Create an issue in this repository with diagnostic information
